# 3. Hafta - 18 Ekim 2021 Pazartesi

Slayt 1.29' dan başlayarak devam ediyoruz...

* Bir process in CPU yoğun olduğu durumda, diğer process ler hiç ilerleyemiyor gibi bir durum oluşabilir.

## Time Sharing (Multitasking)
* Time sharing de amaç response zamanını düşürmektir.
* Bunu yapabilmek için bol miktarda process in memory de olması gerekiyor.
* Memory de kullanılmayanların secondary storage a (hard disk) taşınması gerekmektedir.

## Interrupt Driven (Hardware and Software)
* Hardware interrupt by one of the devices
* Software interrupt (exception or trap)

## Dual-Mode
Dual-mode operation allows OS to protect itself and other system components.
* User mode and kernel mode
* Mode bit provided by hardware
    * Ability to distinguish when system is running user code or kernel code.
    * Some instructions designated as **privileged**, only executable in kernel mode.
    * System call changes mode to kernel, return from call resets it to user.

## Transition from User to Kernel Mode
* fopen bir sistem çağrısı değil, kendisi alt seviyede bir sistem çağrısı yapıyor.
* fopen ile dosya açılmak istendiğinde bir system çağrısı (trap, mode bit = 0) oluşturuluyor. İşlem bittikten sonra tekrar user process e geri dönüş (return, mode bit = 1) yapılır.

## Process Management
* **A process** is a **program in execution**. Program is a **passive entity**, process is an **active entity**.

## Process Management Activities

* Creating and deleting both user and system process
* Suspending and resuming process
* Providing mechanisms for process syncronization
* Providing mechanisms for process comminication
* Providing mechanisms for deadlock handling

## Mass Storage Management
* Entire speed of computer operation hinges on disk subsystem and its algorithms.
* Multitasking environment must be careful to use most recent value, no matter where it is stored in the storage hierarchy.

Hinge: To depend on something

## I/O Subsystem
* One purpose of OS is to hide peculiarities of hardware devices from the user.

## Protection and Security
* **Protection:** Any mechanism for controlling access of processes or users to resources defined by the OS.
* **Security:** Defense of the system against internal and external attacks. (Huge range, including denial-of-servie, worms, viruses, indentity theft, theft of service)

* Distinguish users, to determine who can do what
    * **User IDs:** Assign user id
    * **Group ID:** Assign group id
    * **Privilege Escalation:**  Allows users to change to effective ID with more rights

## Kernel Data Structures
Very similar to standart programming data structures
* Singly Linked List
* Doubly Linked List
* Circular Linked List
* Binary Search Tree
* Hash Functions

1.46 slaytlarından sonraki slaytları incelemedik. Geri kalan kısmı bizim okumamız gerekiyor.

# Chapter 2 Operating System Structures
* Operating System Services
* User Operating System Interface
* System Calls
* Types of System Calls
* System Programs
* Operating System Design and Implementation
* Operating System Structure
* Operating System Debugging

## Operating System Services
* Operating System provide an environment for execution of programs and services to programs and users
* Provides functions that are helpful to the user:
    * User Interface (UI): Varies between CLI, GUI or Batch
    * Program execution
    * I/O operations
    * File-system manipulation
    * Communications: Shared memory or through message passing (packets moved by the OS)
    * Error detection
* For ensuring the efficient operation of the system itself via resource sharing
    * Resource Allocation
    * Accounting
    * Protection and Security

## System Calls
* Typically written in a high-level language (C or C++)
* Mostly accessed by high-level Application Programming Interface (API) rather than direct system call.
* Three most common APIs;
    * Win32 API for Windows
    * POSIX API POSIX-based systems (for UNIX, Linux, and Mac OS X etc.)
    * JAVA API for the Java Virtual Machine

## Types of System Calls
* Process Control
    * Create process, terminate process
    * end, abort
    * load, execute,
    * Get process attributes, set process attributes
    * wait for time
    * wait event, signal event
    * allocate and free memory
    * Dump memory for debugging  
...  
There are a lot of system calls.

2.26. slayt ta kaldık...